# editAutomation
## Why This Was Made
Script created for a friend of mines startup called minutestudy which creates high quality informational short form content on a variety of content mainly focused on health, books and cognitive function. He came to me with the issue of editing being a large time suck for him as he was previously going through and editing one take into separate clips to piece together. With him being the only person editing these videos I created a script for him which would strip the original take into its .wav function and determine time stamps that were below a threshold audio level over a specified time period and then go and automatically cut the original take into clips and place them in an output folder. This allowed for him to leave silence between takes as he was recording and then run this script and have the majority of the grunt work associated with scrubbing through the video and manually clipping to be skipped entirely.
## Additional information and How to Run
For ease of use for minutestudy's editors I decided to attempt to cloud host this script via flask. To run locally pull this repository to your local machine and input name for input folder and output folder into config.py. Setup an input folder to place videos you want clipped in the serverside folder as empty folders can't be uploaded to github, these clips will be outputted to to the output folder clipped and returned. Next run main on a local port. After that setup clientSettings.py with client side input and output directory, again you must create these folders yourself. You can then run the gui from the clientside folder and from there it should be fairly self explanatory to run. The GUI is not threaded and therefore is slightly laggy when the script is running, give it some time to run and result clips should be placed into your output folder. The log.csv file in serverside will document all time stamps of clips and their associated input clip. This project only uses .mp4 files in it's current state.
## Requirements
There are two requirements.txt files, one on server and one on client side. Both must be downloaded if hosting locally. This program also requires FFMPEG downloaded on your computer (guide for installation on windows 10: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r1AtmY-RMyQ), please note that ffmpeg can be finicky with interfacing with python's ffmpeg module, as python has multiple ffmpeg modules and one is depreceated, this may cause errors to throw. If this happens uninstall both ffmpeg modules and install current module. 
## Disclaimer
The PyAudioAnalysis folder in server side which made this entire project possible through providing analysis of the stripped .wav function was not created by me. The github link to this repository is: https://github.com/tyiannak/pyAudioAnalysis. Huge thanks to the creator of this project for making this possible.
